Okay. So let's, yeah, let's look at how we can automate a process like the one that
we packed together yesterday. And actually what we might do is have a look at something
that Radik put on the forums because I kind of want to have all the stuff we want to include
there and then we can automate the whole thing. Yeah, here's Radik's thing. Okay, so Radik,
do you want to tell us about what this thing is? What your project goal or what is, yeah,
what's this forum post about? This is yet another of Radik's crazy interventions. But
essentially this is how I learned. So if I, this is the first AI way of learning at least,
I think of this as the first AI learned way of learning. So what does it say? Can it
also have Radik yet? You just take us through what it's, what, what it is? Oh, yeah, absolutely.
So yesterday in the work through we covered some material and I wanted to find them a
fun way to practice it. So I went to Kaggle, I looked for competitions and there was a
competition that seemed like participating in it could allow me to practice what we learned
about the work through. So I created this as a resource for others. You know, I've been
creating such things for a couple of years now. And maybe it requires also a little bit
of understanding of Kaggle, which somebody who has not played around with Kaggle yet,
they might not have it. So I thought, hey, let me put this together, share it with others.
So this is a getting started part with a community competition. It features images of plants.
If you're supposed to detect one of nine or one of 10 classes of plant diseases that
they can be affected with, I haven't looked too much at the data. Essentially, I relied
on fast AI functionality, where if I present the image data loaders and then while they
took any of my present the learner with data that seems to be appropriately formatted,
then the learner will do the rest. So I tried to do this as quickly as I could just to put
it together and to practice on my own as well while doing this. And hopefully this can
be useful to others.
Great. Should we try going through together? Somebody's got a fast AI one here already?
Sounds fun. Let's try it. So that's great. And I like the fact that you're looking to
run it on paper space rather than on Kaggle. I think that's good practice. So let's do
the same thing that Radik did. So in Kaggle, you can see all the competitions that are
running active competitions. So there are various different types. There's the normal
ones that have money involved. And as well as having money involved, they also have ranking
points. So that gives you the opportunity to try to become a master or grandmaster or
whatever by getting ranking points.
Then there are some which are just for kudos. So there's no money involved and no ranking
points. And you can kind of use the little buttons at the top to find getting started
competitions. So those are just knowledge. Some have prizes. I wonder what prizes they
have. A TPU start, 20 extra hours of TPU time for four weeks. There you go.
That sounds like a drug. You use TPUs to win and then be more to keep going.
I love it. And then there's also playground competitions, which they kind of repeat each
month. All right. So it looks like Radik's picked out a kudos competition. So we're not
going to get any money or ranking points. We're just doing it for the enjoyment and the learning
training. So we have to click. Before you can download the data, you have to click join
competition. And this is a really common mistake people make is they try to download the data
without doing that. You'll get an error. So as it says, you can download the data by
running this command here. Now, that's not going to be installed yet. So we need to
install it. So we can install it with pip install minus minus user, etc. I feel like
given how much we're typing pip install minus minus user, whatever, it might be worth creating
an earliest for. This is taking a long time. Do you like paper space so far generally?
Very much. Yeah. Yeah. It's the first platform I found, which I feel like I can use this,
you know? Yeah. So I have to give another try then. Not opening my cheaper 11. Yeah, make
sure you do all the previous walkthroughs because it really does take you through like
how to take advantage of this and it's, yeah, otherwise it's not particularly exciting.
All right. I'm having some trouble with Jupyter Labs. So I'm just going to go to and use their
rather unappealing GUI. Hopefully that'll work. Don't even that's not working.
Do they have the ability to SSH into these machines, you know? They do not. But because
you've got Jupyter lab installed, you get a full terminal. So it doesn't really make
any difference. And you can also connect VS code to them. Anyway, for some reason, this
is the first time this has happened. It's not liking me. I can't open a Jupyter lab notebook
either. It's timing out. I'll see if I can fire it up in VS code. It's unusually sluggish
today. This is my experience. I've never tried it before. Maybe it's just in here. So the
first game with me is to happen to me all the time. And they seem to have really improved.
I'm going to try. I've never had motion for try a paid one. That helps.
I have a green dot. It's promising.
I've got two tabs. The green dot is the free one. I can't connect through VS code either.
Not even wanting to start. It should be a red dot. It's not working.
No worries. Change of plans. We'll do things locally. We'll yell at paper space. Let me
just switch to my other user. Okay. Let's see if Kaggle's installed. There's no Kaggle.
I would generally start by creating a Tmux session. I would like to be able to run a
few things at the same time. I would run pip install minus user Kaggle.
Now, Kaggle is not just a Python library, but it also has a command line tool. Because
I did minus user, I installed the command line tool into my home directory.
The binaries, things you can execute are generally put in bin.
The local slash bin in my home directory isn't in my path. Therefore, I can't type Kaggle.
As we know, to fix that, if you're on paper space, you would modify slash storage slash
dot local. Here in my machine, I would just modify my home directory dot bash.
On paper space, if you do this, you can modify a desktop local. It will not run before Jupyter
notebook runs. Correct. Which is fine. Okay.
Because Jupyter notebook doesn't need access to this. Unless you want to do exclamation
mark Kaggle, if you want to put exclamation mark Kaggle in Jupyter, you would need to
put it in pre dash run dot s h. Is that your point there?
Yes. Cool. Great. Yeah.
One question dot bash dot local only will execute in a new terminal. Sorry. Go ahead.
So I suppose like in some operating systems, I think the local bin directory is on the
path by default. So maybe you think that it's just I've never seen that.
That's possible. There's no distributions around.
It could be confusing with like user local bin or whatever. There's some of them on Mac
that are. Yeah. Slash recently on Mac slash user slash local slash. It is not in your
home directory. And that is always part of your path. But this is something in your home
directory. Oh, yeah. Okay.
All right. Okay. So.
By default, you've bunch of stuff in your bash. I see, by the way. So I'm just going
to go to the bottom. So to go to the bottom in VIM, it's shift G to go to the bottom.
And then O to open up a new line underneath this one. So in certain. And so we will export
path equals to order slash dot local slash bin. And then colon and then everything that's
already in your path. So that prepends it to our path.
So I could close and reopen my bash. I see or I can re execute it. And and any exported
variables I want to go into my shell. So to execute stuff and put variables into your
current shell, you can type source. So source dot bash. I see is going to safely having to
close and reopen my terminal. And dot bash. I see is the last thing on the last line.
So I can just do that. And so now we can caggle. Okay. So the next thing we need is somewhere
to authenticate and caggle uses something called caggle dot JSON to do that. So if I
go to caggle, you can grab it. There we are. You can grab it by clicking create your API
button. And what that will do is it will download a file called caggle dot JSON to your computer.
And so once it's downloaded, depending on where you are on Mac, it might be in your
tool to slash downloads directory. And on windows, it'll be in slash mount slash c is
your like windows c drive. And it'll be in your users username downloads directory.
So they say it needs to be in a directory called dot caggle. So I'm going to make to
dot caggle. I think it's probably just created that for us when we try to run it. That's
good. So now I can copy it. And in this case, I think what I'm going to do is just copy
it from my other account. Copy dot caggle slash. There's my JSON. And I'll copy it into my
by the way, so I want to get the JPH00 home directory. So tilde JPH00 refers to the home
directory belonging to JPH00. Tilde on its own means the current uses home directory.
So I'm going to copy it over to cat.caggle. There we go. And change its ownership so it's
owned by JPH00. So you won't have to do this because you'll be downloading it and copying
it from your downloads. I'm just doing this because I'm copying it from a different user.
All right. So yep, that now belongs to JPH00. So now I should be able to go back into that
username and type caggle. Okay. Okay. So I've got caggle installed. And we'll do a check
from time to time to see whether anything is working. Not really. Okay. So the caggle
competition said we can download it with this command. So I'll copy that. And that's
created directory for the competition. And run that command. Nice. Gigabyte of data.
All right. Did anybody have any questions or anything about this? We wait for that to
go back. So Jeremy, we can use mamba install here since you're doing it on local, right?
It's just that you're demonstrating paper space. If it's on, yes, it is on. It is on
the page. So yeah, mamba install caggle should be fine. Although, to be honest, the simple
pure Python stuff like this, I often just use pip anyway, because things like this, like
pretty much most tools are pip, Python libraries, like pip is the main thing people are kind
of targeting. So you can be sure that that's going to be the most recent version, unless
the documentation explicitly says like we provide kind of packages as well. There's
often a good chance that the kind of packages will be behind. So if I was going to do a
mamba install, I would be inclined to like double check that this is actually the most
recent version. But yeah, I mean, as you say, I just use pip anyway, I suspect for something
like this.
This is used to be the case that you, I remember something about like cookies, and there's
a browser extension and maybe you had your own tool for this, or am I just hallucinating?
Just, did you use to be this way? From like an older past there? Okay.
Okay, so there are always zips things, so we can unzip it. Okay, so I hate it when that
happens, because it actually takes ages, so minus Q for quietly unzip it. Right. Okay,
so that's going to give us our data. I guess one thing is for getting it our Kaggle.json
on the paper space, the easiest way is to click the file upload button in JupyterLab.
So there's just a little upward pointing arrow button. If you click that, it'll upload it.
And then, and then yes, copy it to tilde slash.caggle. And it does have to have the correct permissions,
which is hopefully you might be to recognize this. So that's four plus two is six, and then
zero, zero, so CH mod 600 on that file will give you the correct permissions. Okay. So,
now the only problem is that this is my desktop, which does not have a GPU, so that was actually
a stupid place to put this. So I'm going to copy this to my GPU server. So to copy files
from one Linux or Mac thing to another, very easy way to do it is scp, secure copy, and
type the name of the file, and then type where you want to send it to. Oh, except I don't
have that set up here. All right. So I'm just going to go back to my normal user. So you
do copy tilde, JPH 00, git, paddy, paddy disease classification. I'm going to copy that here.
It does CH own j howard. That. Okay. So you can use scp to copy a file to another machine.
And off that goes. So how does it know what local colon is? So there's a very underutilized
handy file called SSH slash config where you can type things like host local. And when
I SSH to that, it will actually SSH to this host name, and it will actually use this username.
And it will set up, we haven't talked about SSH forwarding, but if you know about that,
it'll set up SSH forwarding. So this is just a little trick for people who do use SSH that
using the SSH config file is great. And it's not just for SSH. It's also for anything that
is SSH, including scp. scp is a secure copy over SSH. All right. So now that's done. I
can log in to that machine. And now we're on a CPU, a GPU machine. So to check your GPUs,
you can type in video dash, and so this has got three GPUs. And I can move that file. I've
just copied into here, into here. So should we use scp or our sync?
It's fine. Yeah. I use scp just because I don't have to type any flags to it. Strictly
speaking, scp is kind of considered deprecated nowadays, but it actually works fine. Unzip
that. Cool. Okay. Making good progress. Let's see what we've got. Okay. So there's a sample
submission dot CSV. There's a train dot CSV, train images, test images. So LS train images,
if this has got like 10,000 things in it, that's going to be annoying. So if you pipe
to head, so remember this vertical bar is called pipe means take the input of this output of
this program and pass it in as the input to this program. And this program shows you the
first 10 lines of its input. Okay. So actually it turns out that's got folders for each category.
So I don't really need to pop it to head. Okay. And so then we could do the same thing
with one of these, bacterial leaf blight and pipe that to head. There we go. So now we
might want to know like, Oh, how many of those are there? So instead of piping to head, we
can pipe it to word count, which is WC. But despite the name, it doesn't only count words.
If you pass in L for line, it'll do a line count. So that's how many bacterial leaf blight
images there are. So it's really useful to, yeah, you know, play around with these things
you can pipe into. So head WC, another useful one is tail, which is the last 10 lines. And
then one we've seen before is grep. So not particularly useful, but show me all the
ones with the number 33. Okay. And you can use head and dead also on files. So head is
very useful for CSV files. If you're in your Jupyter notebook and it's streaming the view
that it cannot read a CSV file, it cannot parse a CSV file, and just jump into console
or even from Jupyter notebook, just do head. Yeah, well, let's try it, right? Because so
we, I think we know that if you type cat and a file name, it will send it to the output,
which by default prints it to the screen. So we could pipe that to head, right? Now, real
Unix gurus will say that was silly because actually if you look up the band page for
head, if you pass it a file name, it does the same thing. But to me, I prefer to learn
a small, small number of composable things. So piping stuff to head is not a bad idea.
And we could even, and you know, another nice thing about cat is I can pipe it into grep
and search for everything with, I don't know, how many of these ADT45s are there? Let's grep
ADT45 and then pipe that into word count, but count lines. ADT. Yeah. So you're going
to quickly get some information at the console, which, yeah, I think can be quite useful.
All right. So next thing to do, I reckon, is to fire up a Jupyter. So let's see the
get Jupyter notebook. Excuse me, Jeremy, if you were interested, my paper space Jupyter
instances started up now. All right. So I don't know if yours would have to look at
that. Fantastic. All right. So it's probably worth just quickly going through the exact
same process one more time, I guess, isn't it? So we'll open up the terminal, pip install,
tag all minus minus user. Ah, that's interesting. So this is because I installed stuff to that
Condor directory the other day. And so if I go which pip, it's actually finding that one,
and I don't want there to be a pip there. So we'll remove it. Condor. Oh, in my home directory.
Okay. Let's try that again. I have to reopen this terminal. How confused is it? Which
pip? There we go. Okay. Now it's happy. Control R, install, define the last thing I typed,
saying install. Okay. We've got the path issue again. So Vim slash, I think I prefer Radix
approach, but again, pre run. So that way we have the ability to use this if we wish
in Jupyter, not echo. So export path equals local in, and then the current path. One of
the confusing things I find about bash, and it could be a couple of times. If you are
then export something a variable name, you need to have the equality sign straight after
the variable name. Oh, yeah. And you know, it's just one of these little quirks where
things are different. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, bash is a very old program. And it has
these weird old quirks about white space sensitivity. So that's a really important point to mention.
Thank you. And I'll run it here as well, rather than restarting. And so now Kaggle should
exist. That does it runs. That's good. All right. And so let's copy this into my downloads
directory. Or else I guess what I could do. Yeah, let's just do that. Copy to a slash
Kaggle slash mount slash the users J downloads. And so we should be able to now upload it from
my downloads directory. There it is. Okay. And so it's created a dot Kaggle directory
for us. Oh, wait. Oh, sorry. This is my wrong. Sorry. Let's do that again. CD tilde slash
dot Kaggle. Yeah, it's created a Kaggle directory for us. And so we should be able to move the
thing that we just uploaded to slash notebooks into here. And the permissions will be wrong.
So we can fix them. Okay. And so let's see if it works here as well. It does. And paper
spaces network is faster than my connection in Australia, not surprisingly. Well, though,
you know, mine wasn't bad, actually. Okay. So, um, oh, that was a dumb place to put it,
obviously. I don't want to put it in paddy disease classification. You know, we're only
going to use this for this notebook, I guess. So maybe move that to slash notebooks. And
so let's create a paddy folder. Pop it in there and unzip it. So that means, okay, that's
interesting. There's no one zip that we know how to deal with that. Wasn't control are
working for me. Oh, because control does a refresh. Oh, that's annoying, isn't it? So
how do we search our history in these terminals? Oh, well, that's fine. I will just type it
in manually and we will figure out how to make control are working at some of the point.
So, um, Mike, remember minus C, Condor, Forge, minus prefix, Torda slash Condor, install.
Probably need the install first. Yeah, a lot of the keyboard shortcuts don't work in the
browser based terminal, which is actually pretty annoying. They work a bit better on
Mac than on Windows, because the Windows, the control key is both used for the Linux
terminal commands and it's also used for like the normal browser commands. We're also
on Mac, they use command for the browser commands. And so the control key doesn't get overwritten.
So this will probably be a better experience on Mac actually than Windows. Okay, so we're
going to install unzip. And hopefully by the time people watch this video, if it's like
July or later, things like Mamba and unzip will already be installed. Okay, let's check.
Okay, we have an unzip. That's good. Okay, so that is on its way. So that's going to
use up a gigabyte of space in my persistent storage, which you might not want to do that.
Right? And if you don't want to do that, then instead you said unzip it into your home directory.
If you unzip it into your home directory, it won't be there if you close it down and reopen
it. Right? So you might want to create a little script for yourself that does the Kaggle download
and the unzip on your notebook and then you can run that each time you start it up. So
these are the issues. I mean, having said that, the overage cost on paper space for storage,
I believe is 29 cents per gigabyte per month. So the convenience of putting it in storage
is probably worth 29 cents for the one month. You probably want to want it there. So maybe
that's just a better plan. I do know, though, that the... Well, maybe this is a problem,
actually, because I do know the paper space slash notebooks and slash storage are very,
very, very, very slow. And we can actually see that when we're unzipping this. So maybe this
is a bad idea. Maybe we shouldn't put data, at least when there's lots of files. Because
this is painful. I'm going to cancel it and see how far it got. du minus sh train images.
426. And how about test images?
Yeah, wouldn't you know it? It was nearly finished. But yeah, I think this is actually
slower. So I'm going to remove that.
Oops.
And I have a strong feeling if we move it back to our home directory, it's going to be
faster. I sure hope so. And the reason I care is not so much for the unzipping speed, but when
it comes to training a model, we don't want it to be taking ages to open up each of those
files. Well, you see, even iRn minus iRf takes a long time. So,
while that's running, let's move patty slash zip file, pop it into our home directory.
There we go. And then cd to our home directory.
Okay, that's now finished.
So in terms of the steps we're going to do, it would be first we would make a directory for it.
We would then do the caggle download.
So, we would actually, we can just copy easily enough from caggle.
And then we would unzip. Let's see how long it takes.
So the time Unix command runs whatever command you put after it and tells you how long it took.
Did I not move it there?
Oh, dot dot slash patty. I didn't move it there. Yeah. Time unzip quietly patty.
So, yeah, so I think what I would do, now I think about it, is I would have a patty directory in my
notebooks. I wouldn't store anything big here. I just have my notebooks here. And I would put a
script here called get data say. And it'll just have each of the steps I need. So the steps would
be seated to my home directory. Make the patty folder. Do the wget.
Or not wget. Caggle competitions download. I should say unzip it.
And I think that's it. So we can make that executable with ch mod u plus x to add the
executable permission to it. And so, yeah. So then all I have to do is run that thing each time I
start up paper space. And it's only going to take eight seconds to unzip and it took about five
seconds to download. So that's not going to be really any trouble at all, is it? Cool.
And that's, you know, slash notebooks remember is persistent on this machine. So that's all good.
So now we can create a notebook for it. And so my first step is always just to import computer
vision functionality in general. Which is the same thing we used yesterday. And now you know
exactly what that does. And then my second step is to look at the data. So it's easiest to look
at the data if we set a path to it. So it's going to be in our home directory.
And it's going to be called patty slash.
Well, that's okay. It's just slash patty, right?
You can go past that home. Wow. I didn't know that's quite quite neat.
And I slash the end. Yeah, it is quite neat. So that's that. Okay. So we can path.ls
and tells me what's in there. And if you remember my trick from yesterday, I also like to set that
to be the path dot base path. Just so that my Ls is look a bit easier to read.
There we go. So at this point, we could create a data frame by reading in the CSV of path slash
train dot csv.
Okay. So we've got 10,000 rows. Each one is a JPEG. Each one's got a label.
And so let's take a look at one of the images, shall we?
Oh, yeah. Pio image path slash train slash.
Actually, you know, let's make life a little bit easier for ourselves by creating a train path.
Because, you know, it's just so good to be lazy.
slash 1 0 3 3 0 dot j pig. Oh, no, because then they're inside the label directory.
Yes. So what we actually probably should have done would be to say trim path dot ls.
Great. Patty train. Is that not right?
Train underscore images. And that's another good reason to put it in a variable. So you have to
change it in one place. And so there we have that. And so let's create, I don't know, let's
call it the bacterial leaf light, path equals train path slash
bacterial leaf light.
Great. So now we should be able to go BLP and look at that image.
Oh, there we go. There we have an image. Yay.
Okay. All right. So it might be nice to find out a bit about this.
Maybe look at the size.
So it's a 480 by 640 image.
Great. You know, another way we can take a look at an image you might remember from yesterday.
You can go files equals get image files and pass in a path.
And this will be recursive. So I can do this.
As you can see, this has got the 10,000. Okay. And that number there matches that number there.
So that's a good sign. And so another way to do that would have been to go
image equals PIL dot create files zero.
Okay. And we can even take a look at a few, right? So if we wanted to check that the image size
seems reasonably consistent, we could go O dot size for O in, well, actually, PIL image
dot create O dot size for O in files 10, for example.
So, you know, this is not particularly rigorous, but it looks like they're generally 480 by 640
files.
They're all the same size, which is Andy. That's interesting.
And they're probably bigger than we normally need. You know, we normally use both images
that are about 224 or so. Having said that, I don't know if like, I presumably, this is some
disease thing, Patty disease competition. So it's rice. Classify the images according to their disease.
So I can't even tell that this thing has a disease.
So I don't know how big it needs to be to see the disease. So it is possible it'll turn out that we
actually need full sized images. So like I would start by using smaller images and kind of see how
we go. Anyway, 640 by 480 is not giant, so we should be fine. The CSV file
has got one extra bit of information, which is the variety.
Radik, did you find out what this variety thing is about?
About from the dark. I didn't even know that this is before I existed.
But it's fine because we can build a model model model on the data.
I see it's the type of rice as opposed to the type of disease. Yeah, so maybe, you know,
the different diseases might look different depending on what type of rice it's on.
My guess is that we wouldn't need to use that information because given how many images there are,
I would guess that it's going to do a perfectly good job of recognizing the varieties by itself
without us telling it. Unless there's a whole lot of different types of varieties, which we can
check easily enough, right, by checking the data frame, grabbing the variety,
and doing a value counts. And we can see how many there are of each. Okay, so there's not,
okay, so look, I mean, there's a couple of tiny varieties, but on the whole, most of it is ADT45,
and quite a bit of kah nah kah pon nii. Does that seem like a bit of a rice session today, doesn't it?
Lots of rice going on. Yeah, so I think it's very unlikely that this variety
field is going to help because there's so many examples of the main one anyway that it's going
to be able to recognize it. I mean, at some point we can try it, but I would be making that a pretty
low priority for this competition. And so yeah, I mean, given we're doing a practice walkthrough,
I'd be inclined to fire up fast walk and the intro and see if we can just basically do the
same thing that we did last time. So I'm going to merge these back together again. We've already
got those two, we've got those. Well, there's not much there, is there?
Oh, I'm in APL mode. I wonder why things aren't working. I don't know how that happened.
I've used APL today. Copy paste. Okay, so this is how we did cats. So we needed a labeling function.
Now in our case, the labels are very easy. Each image is inside the directory, which is its label.
So the parent folder name is the label. And so we already have a function to
label from folders. So we can actually just do image to edit loaders from folders, because
that's all we need. So we're still going to need the path. Train and valid are actually have
different names. So let's fill all of those in. So we're going to have path.
Train equals train underscore. What was it images images? Yep. And test images. Train underscore images.
Valid percent. So it gets fine. We'll do that the same as last time. Okay.
It's expecting to have train and valid subfolders, or valid percent. So hopefully that'll work. Let's
try it. And we'll use the same resize as last time. Okay.
All right. Oh, no. Did that work? No, it didn't work. Because we've got
that's interesting. Test images. So my guess is it's got confused by the fact.
Yes. Okay. So possibly what we should instead do is use train path here.
And use valid percent instead. I wonder if that'll fix that problem.
There we go. That's fix that problem. Okay.
Great. So we should then be able to create a learner.
And learn dot fine tune.
Let's just do one epoch to start with.
There it goes. So it can be useful to kind of make sure it's
being reasonably productive as it's training. And we can do that within video smi.
In video smi minus help. Oh, so much help.
So there's, let's take a look here.
We've only got one GPU, so that's fine.
Okay. We're not modifying anything.
Demon. I think that's the one we want.
In video smi. Demon.
Okay, that's just finished. So while it was running.
So this is something people often say to use watch and video smi to like have it refresh.
But actually I don't think most people know that there's a demon subcommand where you can use
that just as you can see it shows you every second how it's going. And it's showing me the
most important thing is this column sm. SM stands for symmetric multi processor. That's kind of
what they call it instead of a CPU for their GPUs. And it's showing me that it's being used 70 to 90
percent kind of effectively if you like. And that's a good sign. That's fine. So if this was like
under 50, then that would be a problem. But it looks like it's using my GPU reasonably effectively.
Yeah, and it's got the error rate down to 13%. So we are successfully training a model. So that
sounds good. So Jeremy, just a quick question. When you're saying that like if it's under 50%,
then that can be a problem. Is that because you've oversized the GPU like when you selected it or
like just just what you know what you know what that would mean? Yeah, thanks. It's a good question.
So let's rename this. It would probably mean that we're not able to read and process the images fast
enough. And so in particular, my guess is that if they're in slash storage or slash notebooks,
you would see the sm percent be really low because I think it would be taking a really long time to
open each image because it's coming from a network storage. And so generally, yeah, a low sm means
that your your IO, your input output, your reading or processing time is too high. And so the ways
to fix that would be if you one would be to move the images onto the local machine. So they're not
on a network drive. A second would be to resize the images ahead of time to make them a more reasonable
size. And a third would be to decrease the amount of kind of augmentation that you're doing, or
another would be to pick a different instance type with more CPUs. So those are basically the things.
Perfect. Okay.
Just the NPA, this is my command. It also has a lot of visual information like your
code out there again and stuff like that. So, you know, it's also a useful command even without email to
know that it's an exists. Yep. Yeah. A lot of details here. So if you're looking for the
IDX of your GPU, the multi GPUs, and some of the variables here are a little bit more descriptive.
So it might be easier to get started with that command or to at least use it every now and then.
And if you'd like to have this one running in a loop, which is what I generally do,
just to add the other SMI minus. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I, I, I agree, this is useful,
but I would suggest an alert to use the Dmon because there's only two columns you care about.
It's the end and this one does not show you SM, right? So if you want to actually see it's being
utilized, you need to use Dmon and you can also see the percentage memory utilization. So just
look at these two columns. The other ones you can actually ignore. Yeah. Okay. I think that's a
pretty good place to stop. I'm glad you put us on to this competition. Radik. It looks fun.
And I feel like we've got a reasonable start. So yeah, maybe next time we can try
doing a submission. And we could also try creating a Kaggle notebook for other people to see.
How does that sound?
Sounds excellent. One thing I also like about this is that coming up across problems as we go and
yeah, jumping through those hoops and there's the beginner sorts of roadblocks that we'll have
to face, I guess. Exactly. Exactly. It's super valuable. If you guys, you know,
well, repeat these steps or do it on another data set or whatever and hit some roadblocks,
then it's really helpful. If you've solved them, you know, come back tomorrow and tell us what
happened and how you solved it. And if you didn't, come back tomorrow and tell us to fix it for you.
I think they're both useful things to do. So things like Radik's example of like doing a
bash environment variable and having a space next to the equal sign, you know, that kind of stuff.
I forget even to mention it, but really useful information.
You know, this competition is nice because it's relatively small, like 10,000 images and
it's a light with what you're doing in the course. But if you'd like to try something out on a
competition that is not active right now, you can still do this. Raskagil allows you to do
this light submission thing. And this opens up many competitions to play around with.
The current competitions that are how do you call it Rask competitions, they urge you
points and their prices. They are not on images. So we explore something on your own to try the
methods on their competition on a image that might be something quite useful.
So to find those, you're going to scroll to the bottom and click explore all competitions.
And
yeah, this will
let you see closed competitions as well.
And you can even see, I guess, here you go, you can find out which ones were the most popular
of all time. That can be interesting. Crypto forecasting. Well, of course it would be.
That's a bit sad, but there you go. That's interesting. This patent phrase one is super popular.
That's good to see. Instant gratification. All right, thanks all. See you next time. Bye.